## Assignment in Advanced Systems Integration & Architecture
1. Define Service Oriented Architecture(SOA).
-	SOA or Service Oriented Architecture is a software development that allows reusability of services. Other applications also apply SOA that needs services from other existing services and those services will communicate with each other to work together. There is a technique that is used for eliminating the dependencies between the components in a system or network so that they can exchange data or to manage business activity, and this technique or method is called loose coupling.
2. List and discuss the characteristics of SOA.
-	It supports loose coupling – Just like on what I have mentioned above, this eliminates the dependencies between the components and for this reason, if the service functionality fails, it should not have a disastrous effect on the client application or cause it to crash.
-	It supports interoperability – It follows criteria that enable various customer or client to utilize the service.
-	Standardized Service Contracts – It contains some information that explains its purpose for the clients safety. 
-	Abstraction - The way the service operates should not be visible to anyone for the safety of both client and customer or the company. 
-	Service Reusability – The logic here is divided so that it will be easy to re-use the service if there is a specific logic or services that they want to use.
-	Autonomy – Just like the abstraction, the logic here must be encapsulated and they must control which logic should be encapsulated so that the services will be more isolated.
-	Statelessness – In here from what I understand, the data should not be retain between different states and that the client application should be the one who is responsible on doing this.
-	Discoverability – Another characteristic of SOA is that it is discoverable, in a way that they provide relevant information for easy identification and by including details about their purpose and capabilities so that people can easily understand it.
-	Composability – Here in composability, just like dividing the logic, complex issues are divided into smaller and more manageable problem for immediate solution.
3. Define Microservices.
-	Based on what I understand, Microservices is composed of independent services that is combined together and they interact with the use of APIs in a way for structuring and organizing software development. 
4. List and discuss the benefits of using Microservices.
-	Independently deployable – One of the benefits of Microservices is that they are remedy for those problems that takes too much time in solving even if it is minor changes. It is because of Microservices being smaller and its nature of being independent deployable.
-	Right tool for the job – Another is that it gives you a freedom to choose the most effective tool that you see fit for a specific task as well as gives you flexibility to choose tools that is suitable for solving unique challenges that you may encounter.
-	Precise Scaling – This is also a benefit of Microservices because from what I have understand, since the Microservices are deployed and scaled independently, if there is a problem that occurs in the future it would be easy to spot it and you can configure only the specific part or component you needed.
5. List and discuss the similarities and differences of SOA and Microservices.
-	SOA and Microservices differ in scope because SOA have an enterprise focus, it means that one part of the company can use and benefit from the capabilities of another part without being restricted or tied to each other. While, Microservices, with an application focus, just like what I have mentioned above, it operates independently. In terms of Communication, Microservices has its own way of talking to others. While, SOA relies on a common Enterprise Service Bus (ESB), that puts it at risk because if it fails, it affects everything. When it comes to Interoperability, Microservices prioritize simplicity in message sending, whereas SOA is open for more complex way. Additionally in terms of Service Granularity, Microservices is designed in doing a specialized task, while SOA include both specialists and those who can handle tasks for the whole company. Lastly, if we talk about Speed, Microservices prefer duplication because it contributes to faster operation, while SOA uses common structure resulting for slowing down development and problem-solving.
-	The similarities of SOA and Microservices is that they are alike in terms of they both use cloud or hybrid environment to build and run applications. As well as, they both break down big applications into smaller and flexible parts that works together but with different purposes. 
